♪ [music] ♪
So we have our state syncing to
our Firebase, and that's great for when we
refresh. The data is still going to be
there. However, when I add stuff to my
order and I refresh, all that data is then
lost. And, rather than sync that to
Firebase, I want to show you to sync that
to HTML5 local storage.
And essentially what that means is we're
going to be storing the data pertaining to
the user's order in the actual browser.
Now, you could use cookies for that but
local storage is a much better fit.
Now, we are going to head back to these
React component life cycle methods.
And we need to hook into two more of our
life cycle methods. First of all,
what we need to do is we need to hook
into when the data actually changes.
And rather than going into every single
piece where we may update our order state,
we can hook into one of the life cycle
methods that's called
"componentWillUpdate."
Let's take a look at it right here. Here
we go. "Updating." componentWillUpdate.
Invoked immediately before rendering when
new props or state is being received.
So what that means is that this hook here,
componentWillUpdate.,
it runs whenever props or state changes.
And that's perfect, because our order is
state, and that is going to be changed and
passed down via props.
So, we're going to hook into the
componentWillUpdate, and I want to show
you how this works.
Let's go up to right underneath our
componentWillMount and we'll use
componentWillUpdate. And that thing will
pass you in two things.
It will pass you in the next props and the
next state, so that's like the updated
props and the updated state. And if
I were to just console log,
something changed, and I'll take these two
props and state and I'll console log them
both as well. By the way, that's a little
trick you can do, next props the next day
I'll show you what that does here.
So we are going to add something to our
order, and now when we see something
changed, open that up, there is our next
props, that's what that little trick does.
If you pass in a curly bracket object,
it's going to name them.
So you actually know what these variables
are called. So next props is showing us
all of our props, and next state is
showing us all of our state.
So that's good, we need to know that, and
any time that our state will change,
it's going to run this
componentWillUpdate hook.
So inside of that what we need to do is
set our local storage.
Now if you're never worked with local
storage before, you can access it by going
to your application tab here, and you go
to local storage and then click on the
actual domain name here. Now you might
have some other stuff in here depending on
if you've ever run any other applications
on your localhost domain.
And your local storage is going to be tied
directly to your localhost domain.
Now, there is some Firebase stuff in here,
you don't have to really worry about that,
but local storage is a key value pair.
Meaning that you can set a key here,
and a value...it's like an object, except
the only difference is that you cannot
nest an object inside of it. You can only
store numbers and strings and booleans and
things like that in the value part.
So the way that local storage works, if
you've never used it...and if you're
familiar with it you can skip ahead a
couple of minutes...we'll have local
storage and you say .setitem. And I'm
going to say "Wes," and I'm going to set
that as, "is really cool." Now I jump back
to my application tab, and there we go,
"Wes is really cool." And then I can call
it localstorage.getItem("Wes"),
and it will return to me
that actual value.
So what we're going to do is that whenever
the order state is updated,
we're going to store it, we're going to
set item in local storage,
and then when someone refreshes the page,
when they're loading it for the first
time, we're going to check if there's
anything in local storage and if there is,
we're going to restore our state via one
of these life cycle hooks.
So we're going to go in here and we're
going to say localstorage.setItem,
and I'm going to save it as order dash and
then the name of the actual store,
so Drab Drab Tomatoes, right? But we
can't, again, we can't hard code that,
but we can use props, because props gets
passed down. So we'll say
this.props.params.storeID. And again,
that's available to us if we go to our
React dev tools here. And we'll go to
"App," open that up, you see it's in our
app.params' available here,
if we open up our order here it's actually
not available to us. So if it's available
at app level but not available at order
level, how do we pass down all the params?
Well, we can go to our app and
figure out where we create our order which
is right here. So we passed in fishes,
and if this is getting a big long you
can put them on their own lines.
And we can either pass down all of the
params or just the one.
So I'm going to pass them all down, and
I'm going to say this.props.params.
Now when that refreshes, we'll go
to our order component.
And look, params are now available to us
at order level, and we have the storeID.
So we can go back to where we set our
local storage, this.props.params.storeID.
so we're going to set,
that's going to be the key,
and then the actual value is going to be
our next state.order.
Right? Because next state is the entire
state, and we don't want to put everything
in there, just the order state inside of
that. Now, that's not going to work and
I'm going to show you exactly why, so
let's go ahead and run that.
And I'm going to go to my application tab,
and I'm going to go to my local storage
here, and as I enter the order, you see
it right here. It's object object.
And why is that? The reason is, because
you cannot store an object inside of local
storage, you can only store strings. So
it's actually just turning the object into
a string, and that's what you get with
object object. So how would you turn an
object into string? Well you can turn it
into JSON. So we'll just wrap that entire
thing is a json.stringify, and then we
will start adding things to our order.
And you should see... hey, there we go,
fish one, and then when I update it, you
see local storage is getting updated,
add to order, add a couple more.
And it's just storing the exact
representation of our order state in local
storage. So that's one way, but now when I
refresh, it's still there.
Drab Drab Tomato, it actually gets
overwritten because that will run on page
load, but we have a problem here where it
doesn't actually reinstate our order.
And we need to go back up to this
component, willMount life cycle hook,
so again right before... maybe we put a
comment in here. This runs right before
the app is rendered. And we already used
that to hook into our Firebase,
but we can also check if there is any
order in local storage. So I'm going to
make a reference to that local storage,
equals, and then we're going to try to
get that item. So say,
localstorage.getItem, you need to back
text, order-this.props.params.storeID.
Then if there is something in
local storage, because it very well may be
that there's nothing in local storage, so
we need to check. If there is a local
storage ref, then we need to update our
app component, order state, then we say
this.setState. Then we're going to update
the order state,
which is going to be...
you might think it's local storage ref,
but again, that's just going to give us
this, fish one... let me add a couple
more to it. That's just a string,
so how do you turn a string back into an
object? Well we do the opposite of
json.stringify, and it's json.parse.
And that will turn the string that we
stored in local storage back into an
actual object here. So good,
give that a save. Hey hey, there we go,
works already. Every time I refresh now,
you will be able to see one pound
Atlantic, and I can update that.
It's all being stored in local storage,
and we can refresh it.
So there is a split second right there
where it does render, and then it actually
fixes itself. You see it says, "Sorry,
it's not available," I'm not sure if you
can catch that. And that's just because
the actual application component is
rendering to the page, and then our local
storage ref is updating.
So it's sort of doing a double render. I'm
going to leave it at that just because
for simplicity's sake. However,
you could use one of the life cycle hooks
called shouldComponentUpdate, right
here. Invoke before rendering when new
props or states are being received. So,
componentWillUpdate gives us the new
props and the new state. And
shouldComponentUpdate also gives us the
new props and the new state. However, that
will... instead of us setting it in local
storage, we will be able to tell React if
that component should re-render.
So we're kind of getting a double render
happening here, and shouldComponentUpdate
allows you to return true or return false
from this actual method.
And then if... let's say you've got like,
four or five pieces of data coming in, and
every time a new piece of data comes in,
that component re-renders itself.
Maybe you want it to wait for four, five
of those pieces of data to all come in,
and then re-render, that's where
shouldComponentUpdate sort of comes in,
where you could say, if I have all five
pieces of data or if I then have my order
state properly, then return true, and that
will cause it to re-render.
Otherwise, return false, and then that's
just going to... it's going to stop right
there. It's going to say, okay I have new
data but I'm not going to re-render myself
on the page until someone returns true
from this. So there's a whole bunch of
different life cycle hooks, and what I
probably recommend here is look through
every single life cycle hook is in there,
read through what it does,
and then you sort of have them in the back
of your mind so that when you've come upon
a problem, you could say,
"Oh, I can probably fix it
with one of these life cycle hooks."